# clews-mauritius-presentation

This repository is part of the [UN-DESA Modelling Tools](https://un-desa-modelling.github.io/).

This is the static presentaion for the related simulation. You can
find a running version of it
[here](https://un-desa-modelling.github.io/clews-mauritius-presentation/).

The visualisation can be found
[here](https://un-desa-modelling.github.io/clews-mauritius-visualisation/).

There is valuable supplementary material for this simulation
[here](https://github.com/UN-DESA-Modelling/clews-mauritius-supplementary/).


## Climate, Land, Energy and Water Systems: a Demonstration Model for Mauritius

Mauritius receives plentiful rainfall, however the high population
density of the island puts pressure on water resources. The threat of
reduced precipitation as a result of climate change is therefore a
major concern. The Mauritius government has demonstrated strong
leadership in the promotion of a broad range of renewable energy
sources, including ethanol. Increasing bio-fuels, however, carries
potentially important impacts on the use of water and land.

A CLEWs model of Mauritius explores how energy policy, such as the
promotion of renewable sources of energy, can impact the use of water
and land. A key concern in this are the prospects for the sugar
industry, which to a large extent will determine the future of land
and water use. Results suggest that boosting production of bio-fuels
in pursuit of more sustainable energy supply and national energy
security may compromise water security. The risk of water scarcity
worsens if climate change brings less rainfall and higher temperatures
to the country.

The modelling exercise sheds light on the interlinkages across a
number of SDGs. For example, the attainment of SDG 7 (sustainable
energy) may have both positive and negative impacts on other goals,
such as SDG 2 (sustainable agriculture), SDG 6 (sustainable water
management), SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth), SDG 12
(responsible production and consumption), SDG 13 (climate action) and
SGD 15 (sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems).
